It was something I always remembered,
watching my mother’s hands
as she carefully prepared the bread
for the Memorial of Christ’s death.
She took it very seriously
because of its special meaning.
On the night before his death,
Jesus told his disciples:
“This [bread] means my body.”
After the bread and wine were passed around,
Jesus said to them:
“Keep doing this in remembrance of me.”
To this day, that’s what we do.
Shari, can you bring me the flour, please?
Thank you.
It was a simple mixture, really.
Do you remember what comes next?
Water?
That is right.
Can you ever add anything else?
No.
It is very important that the bread is made
in the same way
as it was in Jesus’ day
—just wheat flour and water.
That is all.
But what if people do not have wheat flour?
Well, the bread can still be made
with flour made from rice, barley,
corn, or a similar grain.
But nothing should be added
besides the flour and the water
—no yeast.
Not even salt ?
Not even salt.
Remember what Jesus said at Luke 16:10:
“The person faithful in what is least
is faithful also in . . .”?
“In much”!
That is right.
We want to be faithful to Jehovah
in all  things, right?
After mixing, she would knead the dough,
and the dust would rise and fall
as she worked.
Then, she’d let me roll it out.
Then, it would be placed
on a lightly oiled pan for baking.
When it was done,
it didn’t look like the kind of bread
you and I typically see.
It was rather plain-looking,
dry, and crackerlike.
It easily broke apart.
It was perfect.
And we proudly brought it
to the Kingdom Hall for the observance.
I happily remember those moments
as I now prepare the bread
for the Memorial this year.
But even more important,
when I think of what Jesus did
for each of us,
it is a wonderful privilege
to have a small contribution
on this most important night of the year.